Our School

Markham's early years (1794-1830) were characterized by the rigors of homesteading and the development of agricultural industries. The township's many rivers and streams soon supported water-powered saws, grists and woollen mills. Small hamlets such as German Mills, Almira, Buttonville, Cedar Grove and Unionville began to spring up at the mill sites. The community of Milliken Corners was one such hamlet, named after three early pioneers John, James and Norman Milliken.  Milliken Mills High School (M.M.H.S.) was named to recognize the history of our local community. 
 
Milliken Mills is a fast growing area, which continues to attract new immigrants. Therefore, our school serves a unique community of different linguistic and cultural backgrounds. 

Milliken Mills High School is a culturally diverse community.  The harmonious relations among the various ethnic groups are reflected inside the school where students and staff work together cooperatively. We enjoy racial harmony because members of our school community are accepting of each other, and sensitive to each other's needs. 
 
The multi-ethnic composition of our school includes over thirty cultural groups.  English, Cantonese, Tamil, Urdu and Mandarin are the top five languages represented. 
 
Milliken Mills is a safe school. Staff members are visible in the hallways and volunteer willingly to supervise events. The administration is also highly visible and can be found regularly "walking about" throughout the day. A safe and supportive learning environment has been created by our dedicated staff members – library assistants, the office supervisor and her staff, caretaking staff, teaching aides, teachers, and administrators. Students are aware of the expected behaviour, as outlined in the school code of behaviour, and thus, have a clear understanding of their rights and responsibilities as members of our school community. 
 
Our school motto, "Tomorrow Today," reflects the school's success in consistently modelling positive ethno-cultural relations.  
 
Milliken Mills is home of the Knights. 

The school colours are blue, silver and red.